piper/DOCS.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Piper

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Settings** -> **Add-ons** -> **Add-on store**.
2. Find the "Piper" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use

After this add-on is installed and running, it will be automatically discovered
by the Wyoming integration in Home Assistant. To finish the setup,
click the following my button:

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and start setting up a new integration.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/config_flow_start.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/config_flow_start/?domain=wyoming)

Alternatively, you can install the Wyoming integration manually, see the
[Wyoming integration documentation](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/wyoming/)
for more information.

## Configuration

### Option: `voice`

[Listen to voice samples](https://rhasspy.github.io/piper-samples/)

Name of the Piper voice to use, such as `en_US-lessac-medium` (the default).
Voice models are automatically downloaded from https://huggingface.co/rhasspy/piper-voices/tree/v1.0.0

Voices are named according to the following scheme: `<language>_<REGION>-<name>-<quality>`
The `<name>` portion comes from the dataset used to train the voice or the speaker's name if it was provided.

A voice's quality comes in 4 different levels:

- `x_low` - 16Khz, smallest/fastest
- `low` - 16Khz, fast
- `medium` - 22.05Khz, slower but better sounding
- `high` - 22.05Khz, slowest but best sounding

On a Raspberry Pi 4, up to the `medium` models will run with usable speed. If audio quality is not a priority, prefer the `low` or `x-low` voices as they will be noticeably faster than `medium`.

### Option: `speaker`

Speaker number to use if the voice supports multiple speakers, such as [`en-us-libritts-high`](https://rhasspy.github.io/piper-samples/#en-us-libritts-high).

By default, the first speaker (speaker 0) will be used.

### Option: `length_scale`

Speeds up or slows down the voice. A value of 1.0 means to use the voice's default speaking rate, with < 1.0 being faster and > 1.0 being slower.

### Option: `noise_scale`

Controls the variability of audio by adding noise during audio generation. The effect highly depends on the voice itself, but in general a value of 0 removes variability and values above 1 will start to degrade audio.

### Option: `noise_w`

Controls the variability of speaking cadence (phoneme widths). The effect highly depends on the voice itself, but in general a value of 0 removes variability and values above 1 produce extreme stutters and pauses.

### Option: `max_piper_procs`

Number of Piper processes to run simultaneously (default is 1). Each Piper process loads a single voice model into RAM, so using multiple voices at the same time requires:

- Starting/stopping Piper processes as voices are used, or
- Running more Piper processes

This add-on will start a Piper process for each requested voice up to `max_piper_procs`. After that, the least recently used voice will be stopped.
Increase `max_piper_procs` if you need to quickly switch between multiple voices, but beware that this will increase RAM usage by the add-on.


## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found an bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[repository]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/repository

Commit message:

Update Piper add-on to 1.3.2 (#3181)
Co-authored-by: Franck Nijhof <frenck@frenck.nl>
Co-authored-by: Stefan Agner <stefan@agner.ch>

piper/DOCS.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Piper

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Settings** -> **Add-ons** -> **Add-on store**.
2. Find the "Piper" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use

After this add-on is installed and running, it will be automatically discovered
by the Wyoming integration in Home Assistant. To finish the setup,
click the following my button:

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and start setting up a new integration.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/config_flow_start.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/config_flow_start/?domain=wyoming)

Alternatively, you can install the Wyoming integration manually, see the
[Wyoming integration documentation](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/wyoming/)
for more information.

## Configuration

### Option: `voice`

[Listen to voice samples](https://rhasspy.github.io/piper-samples/)

Name of the Piper voice to use, such as `en_US-lessac-medium` (the default).
Voice models are automatically downloaded from https://huggingface.co/rhasspy/piper-voices/tree/v1.0.0

Voices are named according to the following scheme: `<language>_<REGION>-<name>-<quality>`
The `<name>` portion comes from the dataset used to train the voice or the speaker's name if it was provided.

A voice's quality comes in 4 different levels:

- `x_low` - 16Khz, smallest/fastest
- `low` - 16Khz, fast
- `medium` - 22.05Khz, slower but better sounding
- `high` - 22.05Khz, slowest but best sounding

On a Raspberry Pi 4, up to the `medium` models will run with usable speed. If audio quality is not a priority, prefer the `low` or `x-low` voices as they will be noticeably faster than `medium`.

### Option: `speaker`

Speaker number to use if the voice supports multiple speakers, such as [`en-us-libritts-high`](https://rhasspy.github.io/piper-samples/#en-us-libritts-high).

By default, the first speaker (speaker 0) will be used.

### Option: `length_scale`

Speeds up or slows down the voice. A value of 1.0 means to use the voice's default speaking rate, with < 1.0 being faster and > 1.0 being slower.

### Option: `noise_scale`

Controls the variability of audio by adding noise during audio generation. The effect highly depends on the voice itself, but in general a value of 0 removes variability and values above 1 will start to degrade audio.

### Option: `noise_w`

Controls the variability of speaking cadence (phoneme widths). The effect highly depends on the voice itself, but in general a value of 0 removes variability and values above 1 produce extreme stutters and pauses.

### Option: `max_piper_procs`

Number of Piper processes to run simultaneously (default is 1). Each Piper process loads a single voice model into RAM, so using multiple voices at the same time requires:

- Starting/stopping Piper processes as voices are used, or
- Running more Piper processes

This add-on will start a Piper process for each requested voice up to `max_piper_procs`. After that, the least recently used voice will be stopped.
Increase `max_piper_procs` if you need to quickly switch between multiple voices, but beware that this will increase RAM usage by the add-on.

### Option: `update_voices`

Download the list of new voices automatically every time the add-on starts. You must also reload the Wyoming integration for Piper in Home Assistant to see new voices.

### Option: `debug_logging`

Print DEBUG level messages to the add-on's log.

## Custom Voices

Add custom voice files to the `/share/piper` directory. Each custom voice must include a model file (`<voice>.onnx`) and config file (`<voice>.onnx.json`).
See the [training guide](https://github.com/rhasspy/piper/blob/master/TRAINING.md) for details on how to train and export a custom voice.

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found an bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[repository]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/repository
