silabs_flasher/DOCS.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Silicon Labs Flasher Add-on

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Settings** -> **Add-ons, Backup & Supervisor** -> **Add-on Store**.
2. Find the "Silicon Labs Flasher" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use

The add-on needs a Silicon Labs based wireless module accessible through a
serial port (like the module on Home Assistant Yellow, Home Assistant
SkyConnect/ZBT-1 or other USB based wireless adapters).

1. Select the correct `device` in the add-on configuration tab and press `Save`.
2. Start the add-on.

## Configuration

Add-on configuration:

| Configuration      | Description                                            |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| device (mandatory) | Serial service where the Silicon Labs radio is attached |
| baudrate           | Serial port baudrate (depends on firmware)   |
| flow_control       | If hardware flow control should be enabled (depends on firmware) |
| firmware_url       | Custom URL to flash firmware from                      |

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found a bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues

Commit message:

Allow to specify ezsp-baudrate in silabs_flasher (#4101)
* Allow to specify ezsp-baudrate in silabs_flasher

* Make ezsp_baudrate optional

* Put back missed quote

* Make array to specify arg, rather than string compilation

* Fix config value in array

* Fix separate array elements with space

* Fix linter warning

silabs_flasher/DOCS.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Silicon Labs Flasher Add-on

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Settings** -> **Add-ons, Backup & Supervisor** -> **Add-on Store**.
2. Find the "Silicon Labs Flasher" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use

The add-on needs a Silicon Labs based wireless module accessible through a
serial port (like the module on Home Assistant Yellow, Home Assistant
SkyConnect/ZBT-1 or other USB based wireless adapters).

1. Select the correct `device` in the add-on configuration tab and press `Save`.
2. Start the add-on.

## Configuration

Add-on configuration:

| Configuration       | Description                                            |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| device (mandatory)  | Serial service where the Silicon Labs radio is attached |
| bootloader_baudrate | Serial port baudrate for gecko bootloader (depends on firmware)   |
| ezsp_baudrate       | Serial port baudrate for ezsp (depends on firmware)   |
| flow_control        | If hardware flow control should be enabled (depends on firmware) |
| firmware_url        | Custom URL to flash firmware from                      |

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found a bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
