silabs_flasher/README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Silicon Labs Flasher Add-on

Silicon Labs Flasher add-on to flash Silicon Labs based radios.

By default this add-on flashes the firmware to use Zigbee (Silicon
Labs EmberZNet Zigbee stack).

**NOTE:** Make sure no other add-on or integration is using the radio. In
particular disable the Zigbee Home Automation integration and the Silicon Labs
Multiprotocol add-on.

![Supports aarch64 Architecture][aarch64-shield]
![Supports amd64 Architecture][amd64-shield]
![Supports armhf Architecture][armhf-shield]
![Supports armv7 Architecture][armv7-shield]
![Supports i386 Architecture][i386-shield]

## About

This add-on allows you to flash firmwares using the Gecko Bootloader file format
(gbl). By default it comes with firmware for Home Assistant SkyConnect/ZBT-1 and
Home Assistant Yellow to flash Zigbee.

[aarch64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg
[amd64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg
[armhf-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armhf-yes-green.svg
[armv7-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armv7-yes-green.svg
[i386-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg

Commit message:

silabs-flasher: Drop firmwares and update to latest universal flasher
The firmware files bundled with this add-on are outdated at this point.
Since firmware updates for Home Assistant Yellow and ZBT-1 are handled
by Home Assistant Core anways, let's simply drop the bundled firmwares.

While at it, update the add-on to use the latest universal flasher and
base images.

silabs_flasher/README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Silicon Labs Flasher Add-on

> [!NOTE]
> Firmware updates for the on-board radio of Home Assistant Yellow and Home
> Assistant ZBT-1 are handled by Home Assistant Core itself. There is no need
> for this add-on for regular firmware updates.

Silicon Labs Flasher add-on to flash Silicon Labs based radios from a provided
firmware URL.

> [!CAUTION]
> Make sure no other add-on or integration is using the radio. In
> particular disable the Zigbee Home Automation integration and the Silicon Labs
> Multiprotocol add-on.

![Supports aarch64 Architecture][aarch64-shield]
![Supports amd64 Architecture][amd64-shield]
![Supports armhf Architecture][armhf-shield]
![Supports armv7 Architecture][armv7-shield]
![Supports i386 Architecture][i386-shield]

## About

This add-on allows you to flash firmwares using the Gecko Bootloader file format
(gbl). By default it comes with firmware for Home Assistant SkyConnect/ZBT-1 and
Home Assistant Yellow to flash Zigbee.

[aarch64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg
[amd64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg
[armhf-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armhf-yes-green.svg
[armv7-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armv7-yes-green.svg
[i386-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-yes-green.svg
