vlc/DOCS.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: VLC 

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Settings** -> **Add-ons** -> **Add-on store**.
2. Find the "VLC" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use

1. Start the add-on.
2. Add the VLC Telnet integration to Home Assistant, see documentation:
   <https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/vlc_telnet>


## Configuration

Add-on configuration:

```yaml
```

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found a bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant

Commit message:

Update DOCS.md (#3200)
* Update DOCS.md

Addressing some confusion I had when I had already installed the integration and then re-installed the add-on, and auto discovery didn't just work. See https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues/3186

* Update vlc/DOCS.md

Co-authored-by: Stefan Agner <stefan@agner.ch>

---------

Co-authored-by: Stefan Agner <stefan@agner.ch>

vlc/DOCS.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: VLC 

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Settings** -> **Add-ons** -> **Add-on store**.
2. Find the "VLC" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use

1. Start the add-on.
2. Add the VLC Telnet integration to Home Assistant, see documentation:
   <https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/vlc_telnet>


## Configuration

Note that automatic discovery is expected when the add-on is being installed. If no "VLC media player via Telnet" integration is being discovered, make sure to remove any stale "VLC media player via Telnet" integrations and reinstall the add-on to trigger discovery again.

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found a bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
