matter_server/DOCS.md, before:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Matter Server

## Installation

Use the following steps to install this add-on.

1. Click the Home Assistant My button below to open the add-on page on your
   Home Assistant instance.

   [![Open this add-on in your Home Assistant instance.][addon-badge]][addon]

1. Click the "Install" button to install the add-on.

## How to use

Start the Matter Server add-on to make the WebSocket available to Home
Assistant Core. Install the [Matter integration][matter_integration]
in Home Assistant Core.

## Configuration

Add-on configuration:

| Configuration      | Description                                                 |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| log_level          | Logging level of the Matter Server component.               |

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found a bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[addon]: https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=core_matter_server
[addon-badge]: https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg
[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
[matter_server_repo]: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server
[matter_integration]: https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/matter/

Commit message:

matter_server: Bump Python Matter server to 5.5.0

matter_server/DOCS.md, after:

# Home Assistant Add-on: Matter Server

## Installation

Use the following steps to install this add-on.

1. Click the Home Assistant My button below to open the add-on page on your
   Home Assistant instance.

   [![Open this add-on in your Home Assistant instance.][addon-badge]][addon]

1. Click the "Install" button to install the add-on.

## How to use

Start the Matter Server add-on to make the WebSocket available to Home
Assistant Core. Install the [Matter integration][matter_integration]
in Home Assistant Core.

### Access WebSocket interface externally (advanced)

By default, the Python Matter Server's WebSocket interface is only exposed
internally. It is still possible to enable access through the host interface
To do so, click on "Show disabled ports" and enter a port (e.g. 5580) in the
Matter Server WebSocket server port field.

## Configuration

Add-on configuration:

| Configuration      | Description                                                 |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| log_level          | Logging level of the Matter Server component.               |

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Discord Chat Server][discord].
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

In case you've found a bug, please [open an issue on our GitHub][issue].

[addon]: https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=core_matter_server
[addon-badge]: https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg
[discord]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[issue]: https://github.com/home-assistant/addons/issues
[matter_server_repo]: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server
[matter_integration]: https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/matter/
